Hey, after watching this video, you'll be able to respond to
a player's key presses, explain a bit more about what the Start
and Update methods do, and navigate the Google and Unity
docs, with a bit more confidence. So, let's dive in and take a look at it!
So, here we have our Console game, which currently
does nothing but log four things to the Console, so let's expand upon
on it! Into NumberWizard.cs Script.
Cool! So, let's just go to the bottom of our Start function. We're doing everything
in the Start function, for now.
The next thing we need the computer to do, once it's told you you're allow to
guess and think of a number between 1 and 1,000 rather,
is to make its first guess. So, let's go ahead with that! print
("Is the number
higher or lower than
500?");
OK, micro challenge
for you! Print another statement that says: Up arrow for higher,
down for lower, return for equals.
OK, go ahead and do that now.
It's not very
exciting, it's rather simple. ("Up
arrow for higher, down for
lower, return for
equal"); Fantastic!
Remember, this is good practice, getting your brackets and your quotes right!
Talking about getting your brackets and your quotes right, look at my
first statement here. I've noticed that the end bracket and
the quote are in orange, rather than black, and that means
the computer is still interpreting that as a string,
and the reason is, because I haven't told it to stop interpreting
it with a string. I missed my close
quote. Very naughty! OK, so
next thing we need to do is get some input. So, do you want to see the effect of that?
Well, let's see the effect of what we've done. It's not exciting but
it's something. Here you go. Is it higher or lower than 500?
And then, tell them what they need to do. This is called affordance.
"Up arrow for higher, down for lower, return
for equal". OK, you can't quite read it, but
if you were playing this for real, not that you would, it would be on
a slightly wider Console. Alright, I'll tell
you what we can do. We can actually fix that by just saying ("Up += higher,
down = lower, return
= equal"); just for fun. There you go!
How's that? Alright, let's go ahead and use the first
new function you're going to learn, which is Input, and that's how you're going to get
Input from the user. Now, how
are you going to find out about this thing, or how would you know it was Input, in the
first place? Let's answer the second question first. How would you know
it's Input, in the first place? Well,
What I would do is I would just say, Get keyboard input
unity, into Google. So, let me bring my Google window
across, and let's "get keyboard
input
unity". OK, here we go! There you go, and
it wouldn't be long looking down that, before you'd get the trail
of this input thing. Alright, in fact, we can
go straight here to scripting API, Input
.GetKeyDown. That would be one way of doing it. Another would be to know that
it's the command Input, and to go straight to the docs for that. Now
warning, super handy keyboard shortcut
coming up, although you may need to adjust your Keybindings
in MonoDevelop, Preferences here.
Alright, or maybe slightly differently on the PC, but here's a really
useful Keybinding. When you're on a command you want to know more about, hold down the
the Command key and press apostrophe, and it will search
the Unity docs for that command. It'll search the Scripting
API docs. There's two sets of docs, the Manual,
which is for basically anything you want to know the answer to when you're in the Unity
Editor, and the Scripting API, which is for
questions about scripting. Alright,
so this Input thing, here it is! Now, it's going to tell you lots of
stuff about Input, and one of the things it's going to tell you is that
you can GetKeyDown. I'm just going to jump down to it,
GetKeyDown, and that's the one we're going to use. OK,
Input.GetKeyDown. Now, if you
look down in their example, you see that inside the
Update function, not the Start function, they say this.
So, why don't we just copy their code for the moment. If that
do that. We're actually going to need to modify their code a little bit,
because I very naughtily missed some squiggly brackets,
but that's OK, we can fix that up!
So, over in here in Unity, not inside the Start function but
inside the Update function. Why inside the Update function?
Well, this is your first intro to Start and Update. Start only happens
once, at the beginning of the script, at the beginning of the program,
the beginning of the game. If you weren't holding that key down at the very
beginning, at the instance it checks, then it would miss it. So, it needs to be
an Update, which is called every frame. How many
frames? Well, it depends how many frames per second the game is running,
at that moment and it varies. It could be none or 1
or 50 or 1,000.
So, but anyway, every single time it gets a chance, every
frame it will check. So, here's our statement. What I don't like about
this statement is that it doesn't have the right curly bracket structure,
for my slightly obsessive nature, so I'm going to put the right curly
brackets in. And now, we need to modify this, so that
it works, not for
the Space Key but for
pushing the Up and the Down Arrows, what we're going to use. So,
take a look in the docs, and see if you can work out how to modify this,
so that it works for Up and Down Arrow.
And change this line here for print
("Up arrow
pressed"); OK, so don't get
confused with this Down here and the Up. This is a key going
down, now you're using your key into the keyboard, and this is the
Up arrow that you're pusing down. So, what I need you to do is change
this bit, inside the brackets, so that it responds
to an Up Arrow press and logs it out to the Console.
Try that as a challenge now and pause the video and come
back when you're done. Hey welcome back!
So, the thing that you need is this (KeyCode.UpArrow)
like this. So, what is
KeyCode.UpArrow? Well, what you need to know is the result of
what comes out of KeyCode.UpArrow is the
UpArrow keycode. OK, you can find that in the docs. I found
it by looking... I can't remember exactly where I did
find it? Here you go, I went to Input Manager,
I think? Hmm, where did it go?
Where did I go? In a second, I shall find it! It's
in here somewhere! So, I tell you what, I would
do a Google search for unity
up arrow
key or something like that. And then, you'll qute
quickly find, here you go, KeyCode.UpArrow in somebody's example
code, and it will come up several times, you'll find.
OK, so that's how I discovered what it was, just by a bit of
hunting and sniffing. You haven't seen an if statement yet, don't
worry about it too much. What you need to know is that what
is happening, inside the if statement, will only happen
if this condition is met. We'll talk about it at another time. Alright,
I have a challenge for you then. What we want you to do is,
I want you to do exactly the same for the Down Arrow.
Alright, so let's make another statement,
almost identical to this one, that works for the Down Arrow and
logs out to the Console, "Down arrow pressed". Please pause the video,
go ahead, and do that little challenge right now.
OK, welcome back! So, this is
a pretty simple challenge. It's just a cut and paste job, so copy that initial
code, and then, just paste down here.
And you're going to change Up Arrow for, you guessed it,
DownArrow! And you're going to change this to Down.
Fantastic! That is it! Let's just test all this and we
are done! So, back into Unity, after
having saved our script. Check here and check up
here, that you've saved, or just hit Command S. That's what I
tend to do. Dive into Unity, play it.
It's giving you the instructions, but as long as I've
clicked in the Game Window, by the way you had to have clicked in the Game Window.
Up Arrow says "Up arrow pressed". Down Arrow says, "Down arrow
pressed". Great! Fantastic! Now, you might
want to turn Collapsing on, on your Console. This way, it just logs every line
separately. The other little thing you've got here is the Collapse Button in
the Console. Underneath, you have
the button that says Collapse, and now, every time I go up and down, provided
I'm clicked in the Game Window. If I haven't selected the Game Window, it won't listen to the
keys, then you see the number
against the "Up arrow pressed" and "Down arrow pressed" increments,
to say I've just logged another line to the Console, that's identical
to something I've logged before, so I'm just going to collapse
that into a single line there. Either way, they both work.
Congratulations! See you soon!